---
layout: tindallgram
title: 66-FM1-123
date: Oct 11 1966
from: FM/Deputy Chief, Mission Planning and Analysis Division
serial: 66-FM1-123
subject: Procedure for obtaining Apollo Spacecraft Computer Program schedule information
---
In our (MSC) attempt to establish the most meaningful flight development
schedule for Apollo including, as it must, adjustments to conform with
the continually varying mission constraints as well as providing backup
missions for contingency situations, many people have legitimate need to
know the effect of their ideas and proposals on the readiness of the
spacecraft computer programs being developed by MIT. On the other hand,
the exact schedule of these programs is still ill-defined. As a result,
on occasion recently, people attempting to get this sort of information
directly from their MIT friends have obtained uncoordinated and, thus,
inaccurate information upon which decisions have been made, sometimes
distressing to MSC and MIT both.

To avoid this problem in the future, we are immediately establishing a
procedure wherein Mr. Tom Gibson of the Flight Software Branch and
Mr. Bob Millard of MIT, or their authorized representatives, are to
serve as the single point contacts in their respective organizations for
the procurement of schedule-type information. It will be their job to
poll all influenced parties to assure the information obtained is the
best possible under the circumstances. Spacecraft computer program
schedule information obtained by any other route shall be used at the
user's own risk; certainly with no obligation on our part to comply.
