---
layout: tindallgram
date: Feb 12 1970
from: FA/Chairman, Apollo Spacecraft Software Configuration Control Board
serial: 70-FA-T-13
subject: Software for the AAP CSM spacecraft computer
---
The time appeared right to try to find out exactly what the program requirements
are for the CSM computer for AAP and we had meetings on January 28 and 30 to do
that. As a result of these meetings, a number of PCR'S will be prepared and
submitted to the Apollo Spacecraft Software Configuration Control Board (SCB)
meeting to be held early in March. At that time we will approve or disapprove
these changes and the program will be essentially under configuration control.
One thing that seems clear from our discussions is that program changes required
for AAP are very few in number and, except for the docked digital autopilot,
seem to be quite simple. This is no surprise, of course, but it is nice to
confirm it.

Before getting into the detail of these meetings themselves, I would like to
state a couple of ground rules which we established associated with the AAP
computer program and how we intend to manage it. First of all, we selected the
Apollo 14 command module program as our baseline since it is the latest,
completely defined program we have right now. It is our intention to approve
automatically any PCR for AAP which is approved for Apollo. In the case of
program changes for Apollo which are not desirable for AAP we will issue an AAP
PCR at the same time which deletes that particular capability. By this
paper-work device we will maintain a complete list of PCR's defining the AAP
program changes required for the current Apollo program to make it ready for AAP
if we were to break off a flight program from Apollo for AAP at that time. In
addition, it will provide an up-to-date definition of the capabilities of the
AAP CSM program we plan to implement.

To get this list off with a big bang, we went through the entire Apollo 14
program and identified all those programs, routines, and extended verbs which we
felt should be deleted. This list, which will be covered officially by PCR's,
accompanies this memo for your information. The criteria used to decide just
what should be dropped from the Apollo program for AAP was simple. If someone
could not identify a firm requirement for a particular capability, it was
automatically deleted. It should be pointed out that by deletion we mean that
the capability will not be available for use in flight. We are not insisting
that every word of code associated with that particular program needs to be torn
from the assembly, but we are asking that all references to these capabilities
be eliminated from all AAP program documentation such as the GSOP's, Test Plans,
User's Guides, Flow Charts, and so forth. Of course, the thing we are trying to
do is to minimize the work of the program developers. Obviously under certain
circumstances it will be easier to leave some of these capabilities in the
program, including testing them. In that case they should be retained. However,
this will be by exception only and will require approval of the SCB.

By far, the largest discussion dealt with the rendezvous and how it should be
performed. Basically the question was, should we use the standard Apollo
techniques involving a CSI and CDH maneuver or, as some people suggested, should
we change to a more flexible sequence of maneuvers used on occasion on Gemini,
namely the NCC/NSR combination? The advantage of the former is that it exists in
the current program. The advantage of the latter is that it provides a great
deal more capability to maintain a nominal terminal phase in the face of
dispersion. Its advocates expressed concern, that dispersion could be rather
large on AAP due to the limited tracking available for targeting the early
phasing-type maneuvers. The eventual outcome of all this was that we decided to
go with the NCC/NSR sequence and this program will be changed accordingly. It
should be noted that this decision also impacts the mission planning; that is,
future reference trajectory documentation will reflect this decision. In
addition to agreeing to the change to NCC/NSR, which is said to be rather
trivial as far as the programming is concerned, we also agreed to add a new
targeting program for computation of two earlier phasing maneuvers.

There were only about 6 or 8 other program changes suggested specifically for
AAP and they are all pretty simple, like extending the VHF ranging input
capability beyond 327 n. mi. and improving the SPS short burn logic to support
the small rendezvous maneuvers. I might also point out two rather substantial
Apollo changes which AAP will automatically inherit. They are the rendezvous
improvements to simplify the crew's procedures and the universal pointing
program being added to P20. Special attention will be given this important one
to assure that there are no unique requirements for AAP which have not been
provided by this routine since it will probably be used for attitude control of
the docked configuration.

We also assigned some action items:

a. Make sure there is no special problem involved in aligning the
CSM IMU prior to launch from a Saturn I-B, rather than a Saturn V pad. (Charley Parker, FCD).

b. Verify the interface from the CMC to the Saturn IU is identical to Saturn V
to make sure our P11 program is all right. (Tom Lins, GCD)

c. Identify any coarse alignment program requirement we might have for aligning
the command module IMU while docked to the Cluster, using the Cluster as an
attitude reference.

d. Prepare a complete PCR identifying the functional requirements for the docked
DAP. This big job, of course, is the responsibility of the GCD and Tom Lins will
see that it gets done.

e. Jack Williams will get everyone concerned together to scrub the telemetry downlist, identifying spares and additions, if any.

I think everyone at the meetings agreed that we are in pretty good shape with
respect to the definition of the AAP programs and should have little trouble in
preparing the program from the Apollo assembly at the time we decide to do so.
Although _that_ won't probably occur for at least another year, it is expected
that some off-line assemblies and documentation will be prepared by MIT as often
as their effort on Apollo mainline permits.
