---
layout: tindallgram
date: Jan 15 1970
from: FM/Deputy Chief
serial: 70-FM-T-6
subject: Cabbages and Kings
---
During an informal conversation with a couple of different guys, I have been
asked if MPAD may have some suggestions in a couple of areas. I wouldn't be
surprised if we do, so I thought I would send this little note around to ask you.

1. The other day Jay Honeycutt asked if we might suggest some neat situations he
might include in the simulations to train the flight controllers and crew. You
remember before the last mission we suggested several lulus for powered descent
which were not only a lot of fun for us but quite profitable for the operations
team. This time we should get our suggestions in much sooner and, of course,
they need not be constrained to powered descent. Maybe we can strain the system
for the DOI burn or entry. To be really dirty, it seems to me we should take
advantage of our knowledge of limitations in the RTCC programs and tight spots
in the mission plan itself.

2. As a result of my bellyaching about how our Mercury and Gemini experience
with venting didn't seem to help in the design of the Apollo spacecraft, I was
made aware of an on-going effort at MSC to develop a document called the "Manned
Spacecraft Criteria and Standards." A guy from the Standards Engineering Office,
Jim Donnell, came over to discuss modification to the venting standard and asked
for suggestions regarding other things that have been bugging us. Plume
impingment came immediately to my mind and I am going to write him one for that.
According to Jim, the spacecraft contractor must comply with material listed in
this document. It apparently becomes part of their contract. If that's the case,
it struck me quite worthwhile to take this opportunity to put our complaints
into this document. If you have any suggestions, why don't you get in touch with
me or Jim Donnell. If you're interested in what the document looks like, come by
my office.
