---
layout: tindallgram
date: Jan 20 1970
from: PA/Chief, Apollo Data Priority Coordination
serial: 70-PA-T-8A
subject: The Apollo rendezvous can be shortened by 2 hours
---
As you no doubt are aware, there is a movement afoot to shorten the Apollo
rendezvous by 2 hours. This would be done by eliminating the CSI and CDH
maneuvers and executing TPI about ½ hour after insertion. I thought the reason
this was being considered was to reduce the crew's workday, which has been
pretty long. Apparently it is also to permit more EVA time on the lunar surface.
In any case, a gang of us got together January 14 to talk it over. We were
interested in hearing about what work has gone on, what the feasibility of doing
this is, and to decide where to go from there. This memo is to briefly describe
the technique (Ed Lineberry's people are documenting this in detail and if you
are interested you should call him) and to let you know that it does appear
feasible. I will also note what has to be done now - the first thing being, to
obtain MSC management approval to go on with it.

Following is a brief description of what the technique is:

a. Both the CSM and LM platform are aligned prior to LM lift-off. They are not
ordinarily realigned during the rendezvous.

b. The CSM orbital should be 60 n. mi. circular as before. The LM insertion
orbit will be 10 x 48 n. mi., instead of 10 x 45 n. mi. This small change will
cause the post-TPI trajectory to be virtually identical to that utilized in the
past.

c. Lift-off will be timed to provide the proper relative position of the LM to
the CSM at the time of TPI execution which will occur 38 minutes after
insertion. Thus, lift-off would be about 2½ minutes earlier than on previous
missions.

d. It should be possible to obtain at least 25 marks by each spacecraft for
their rendezvous navigation. Since we intend to always use the time option of
the TPI targeting program, it should be possible to continue navigation
significantly later than in the past. It can't slip early on us.

e. The TPI maneuver is significantly different than before. It is about 85 fps
and rather than along the line-of-sight, it is almost perpendicular to it (i.e.,
pitched down about 45°). Also, in order to provide an in-plane braking, the TPI
maneuver will be made to force a node 90° later, that is, at the second
midcourse maneuver.

f. We concluded that, since the LM TPI maneuver is RCS, the probability of an
unexpected LM inability to execute the maneuver is almost zero. Accordingly
there should be no requirement for the CSM to prepare to execute a mirror image
TPI maneuver. Of course, if a LM failure has occurred which would preclude its
performing TPI, the CSM would do it. It was noted that, since a CSM TPI would
result in a very low orbit, it must also be active for braking.

Although we probed all related areas, we could find very little adverse impact
by going to this plan. Certainly we have not changed the descent aborts and
their associated rendezvous techniques - that is, one and two rev plans,
including the CSI and CDH would still be utilized exactly as before and, of
course, the crew and ground control must be trained and prepared to do them.
This plan essentially consists of eliminating part of that standard rendezvous
and, therefore crew training is unaffected. One area that FCSD will probably
look into is the provision of TPI charts for the crew to backup the PGNCS and
AGS. If these are required, they must be substantially different from the
current ones.

The only other open area deals with changes to the RTCC. Only two were
identified - the lift-off time computation and a program to determine a trim
maneuver after LM insertion into orbit. The former should be extremely simple,
if it is required at all. The need for the latter will depend to some extent on
the sensitivity of the rendezvous to small errors in actual LM lift-off time and
other insertion dispersions. Ed Lineberry's people will continue their work in
pinning down this sensitivity. The three involved FOD divisions will then
establish whatever new RTCC requirements are really needed. This should be done
within a week or so.

One pseudo-mission rule we agreed on was that this rendezvous approach should
only be used in the nominal case when all important systems and trajectory
conditions are as they should be. That is, if things like the rendezvous radar,
the tracking light, or any of the other systems used for rendezvous are known to
be broken, or if we have targeting problems, such as poor definition of the LM's
position, or of the CSM orbital elements we would, in real time, switch from
this quick rendezvous to the standard approach used on all previous flights. Of
course, this switchover must be made before lift-off since after that time we
will have created a phasing situation that pretty well commits us to go on with
the shortened plan.

In summary, a simple approach to shortening the Apollo rendezvous by 2 hours was
agreed upon by just about everyone interested in this subject. The impact seems
quite limited and, to me, well worth paying for the rather attractive benefit. I
would be surprised if we have overlooked anything that would change this picture
although, of course, it is possible, I suppose. Accordingly, we will continue
working on this approach - cleaning up the loose ends noted above and will
approach our leaders to see if it should be incorporated into the Apollo 14
mission. Essentially what we are offering is an increased capability which can
be used either to extend the lunar surface work or to just shorten a long, tough
day.
